---
layout: post
title:  "Photography, Privacy, and Censorship"
date:   2020-09-26 21:33:00 -0400
categories: privacy censorship
---

Unknowingly ending up in the background of a photograph can be unsettling in many cases. I think the context of the photo is important. If the back of my head is visible 30 feet away in a vacation photo, it probably will not bother me. I might be more bothered if a photo is discretely taken of me at the exact moment I spill a hot coffee in my lap. There is spectrum ranging from “I don’t mind” to “that is extremely invasive” although the lines are a bit blurred. There are many shades of grey in between.

I think any individual that takes photographs of me in my apartment/home (private property) against my consent is invading my privacy (unless they have a legal reason to be there). I think the same thing applies to the workplace (because private property). I do not think my privacy is being invaded if I am included in a large panorama of a sports stadium since I am in a public place and I am not being singled out. On the other hand, I think some photographs taken in public places can be invasive. Let us say a discrete portrait photo is taken of me on the street for no apparent reason and posted to the front page of a popular website with personal and identifying information listed below. Although I was in a public place, and there is nothing legally wrong with taking the picture, I think the photographer was in the wrong and invaded my privacy.

One big factor is your relationship with the photographer. I care less if the photographer is a close family member or friend, but even this situation has some nuance. Is the photo embarrassing or compromising to my reputation? Was the photo taken discretely or was I asked? Will they simply keep the photo in their camera roll or will it be posted to social media or shown to others? All these factors determine how I feel about the situation. They also make it hard to define hard rules on what is and is not invasive photography. Ultimately, situations must be examined on an individual basis.

This subject has a lot of cross over with the topic of censorship. For example, the nhe news will be censored if it is illegal for journalists or reporters to film or take photographs in public. Current events are a great example. Without videos and photographs, many people would not be able to see footage of various protests or maybe even realize they are happening. I am sure there is some percentage of those people that do not want to be filmed. I think it is important for events such as these to be recorded and documented. This kind of documentation allows the public to stay informed and allows information to reach a larger audience of people. It also will be important for the future when anthropologists, sociologists, and historians are studying and teaching about the early 21st century.