---
layout: post
title:  "Pasco County Sheriff"
date:   2020-09-15 22:13:00 -0400
categories: police
---

I think this is a tough descision to make. If you were to examine this situation through the lens of a ethical system, let's say utilitarianism, it is not very clear. It is hard to tell if this is causing a net negative or a net positive. Based on statistics provided in the article, crime rates for the county did not improve. This might imply a net negative since people are being harrassed and tax payer money is being wasted.

 Sitting at home considering this situation, it is easy for me to say I would not partake in creating this kind of software. At the same time, I may not have a choice. Maybe the alternative is losing my job (fired or let go due to the company going under). Depending on my position in the company, I may try to inform the client of flaws and possible ways to mitigate them.


While I as a software developer understand the flaws of this software, I probably do not know the extent to which they will be abused by law enforcement. While there are inherent flaws with the software, a lot of the issues arose because of the police departments policy. They chose to write petty citations for these individuals and harress them independent of the software.

With all these things in mind, it is still hard to come to a decision. I believe that this software and the way it is implemented is immoral, but I think I would still choose to partake in development, especially if my livelihood was on the line.

